# Project-Starter

AWS Link : https://master.d3vh5uuybzglfb.amplifyapp.com/ 

Here are some things to keep in mind on this project.

- Only make a PR on the `develop` branch.
- We would merge the develop branch to the master branch every Sunday. (p.s: it would only be merged if all the tests pass)
- When making a PR follow this format below;
  - What is this change?

  - Why are you making this change?

  - Link to design document/Github issues.

  - What testing was conducted?

  - Does the change have unit test coverage?

```

# INSTALLATION AND SETUP
Our system has two versions. The fully deployed system on the cloud is available at https://master.d3vh5uuybzglfb.amplifyapp.com/. In the case of the local system and for your personal use, please follow these steps below. 
•	Visit our repository at https://github.com/COSC-499-W2023/year-long-project-team-12. The official branch with the latest release is the master branch. 

•	Before cloning the application, ensure you have installed docker desktop. For Mac and PCs, please visit https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/. 

•	After installing docker desktop, go back to our GitHub repository, select code, and navigate to the clone option over HTTPS. On your local computer, clone the repository into a directory of your choice.

•	After the repository is cloned, open the full repository folder in an IDE of your choice. If you do not have an IDE installed, I would recommend you install VS code. 

•	While in VS code or any other IDE, open the terminal and ensure the working directory is the project folder. If it is not, navigate into the project folder using cd. 

•	Once you are in the project folder, navigate to the folder called “app”. In here is a file called “docker-compose.yml”. This file contains the configurations used by docker to mount the containers onto your PC. For now, do NOT edit this file.

•	While in the directory “app”, run the command ‘docker compose up’ on your terminal. The first run of this will install all necessary dependencies and establish three containers for your use. These are the UI, API, and DB containers. 

•	Navigate to http://localhost:3000/ to view the application. You can test out the system by creating users. 

•	If there is a need to change the ports of any containers, update the docker-compose.yml file with the necessary changes.

•	If you were to make line changes to the UI, all you need to do is save the change in your IDE. This should reflect directly almost immediately. For any new dependencies, you will need to destroy the container and images, to build a new one. 

•	If you were to make any changes to the API/backend, you will need to destroy the container and image, to rebuild it. 

** There is a special case where if you are in a debugging session when you make a line change on the backend using IntelliJ IDE, you can ‘hot-reload’ the container by reloading the classes. 


Also, update your README.md file with the team and client/project information. You can find details on writing GitHub Markdown [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) as well as a [handy cheatsheet](https://enterprise.github.com/downloads/en/markdown-cheatsheet.pdf).
